# The-Gun-Debate
In recent years mass shootings in schools, universities and other public places have increased in the USA, which got me thinking why this isn’t the case in Australia. When I did my research, I found that Australia has gun laws that prevent the general public from owning firearms, which is not the case in the USA. So, to investigate whether gun laws in the USA are effective in controlling gun violence I started this project.

# Message that I intend to convey:
Initially I just had the gun violence incidents data set that I got from Kaggle, but this data was not enough for the findings I wanted to produce so I gathered some other data sets. After all the cleaning and wrangling processes were done, I started to create visualisations. I found that the best way to show the relation between the number of gun violence incidents in the USA and gun laws is to show it state wise since each state in the USA has different gun laws. So, it was best to show this data using a choropleth where the colour density shows the number of incidents and the tooltip will give information about the strictness of gun laws. I also wanted to show how factors like terrorism, gang activities and drug activities contribute to gun violence, for this I used bubble maps. Finally, I wanted the user to get an idea as to what categories of gun violence are present in the USA and which categories have how many incidents and the best way to represent this was using bar graphs.

# Intended Audience:
My main intended audience are citizens of the USA and people travelling to the USA. The citizens and anyone planning to visit the USA can use this application to get an idea as to which states would be safest and which states would be the most dangerous to live in or travel to. This application will also provide information on which gun laws are present or absent in which states and finally there is also the option to see how many accidents and self-harm cases are caused because of guns. All this information will help the user to decide whether the right to own a gun protects them or puts them in harm's way.
